Adding a Valkey performance blog and dtaivpp profile (#155)
valkey-io/valkey-io.github.io: content/blog/2024-10-21-testing-the-limits/index.md

## Baseline test

Now we are ready to do some baseline testing. We will log into the benchmarking server. If you haven't installed redis-benchmark yet you can do so with `sudo apt install redis-tools`.  

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a <PASSWORD FROM .env>  -h 10.0.1.136
```

Test breakdown:
- `-n` - this will run 1,000,000 operations using the commands set in -t
- `-t` - will run the set and get tests
- `-P` - this specifies that we would like the tests to use 16 pipelines (send 16 operations per request). 
- `-q` - silences the output to show only the final results
- `-a` - use the specified password
- `-h` - run the test against the specified host

Honestly, I was asonished by the first set of results I got. Sure, I expected Valkey to be fast but this speed from a single board computer?? ON A SINGLE THREAD?? Its amazing. 

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad  -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 173040.33 requests per second, p50=4.503 msec                    
GET: 307031.00 requests per second, p50=2.455 msec
```

> Between the two tests we averaged 240,000 requests per second with a median time of 3.45 msec (or 0.0034 seconds) for each operation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Between the two tests we averaged 240,000 requests per second with a median time of 3.45 usec (or 0.0000034 seconds) for each operation. 
```
Order of magnitude off :)

Author: Ahhh I see what you mean. Ill clarify the for each operation to say per round trip for the pipeline batch. 

As for your other comment you mean it might not be worth including in the blog at all? I am happy to remove it as it scales with the RPS.

Reviewer: > As for your other comment you mean it might not be worth including latency in the blog at all? I am happy to remove it as it scales with the RPS.

It actually doesn't scale, it's just an artifact of the way the benchmark works. The amount of time a single command takes is a constant (more or less it's just a hashmap lookup) +  how much queuing is present on the server. Queuing artificially decreases as the server is able to sustain more load if you have the same number of pending clients since the benchmark sends requests as fast as possible. This isn't how real world scenarios work. Your application sends a finite number of requests per second. If you sent a finite 100k RPS, the latency would be identical on both setups, since neither system would queue. What you actually want to generate is a curve which is the "max throughput" for a given latency, but that requires a highly adaptive system.

tl;dr, the benchmark is built to really only test throughput. If you want to effectively test latency you need to bound the throughput.

If you're following along on a Pi of your own I've outlined the steps to overclock your CM4 below. Otherwise you can skip to the results section below.

1. Open the below file in a text editor like nano.
    - `sudo nano /boot/firmware/config.txt`
2. At the end of the file add this section below the `[all]` tag.
    ```
    [all]
    over_voltage=8
    arm_freq=2200
    ```
3. Save with cmd + x, y, enter 
4. Restart the server and log back in `sudo restart now`

We've just increased the speed of the Pi by 47% by raising the clock speed from 1.5Ghz to 2.2Ghz. Now lets re-run our test and see how things look!

```bash 
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 394368.41 requests per second, p50=1.223 msec                    
GET: 438058.53 requests per second, p50=1.135 msec 
```

We're up to 416,000 requests per second with a 1.2 msec (0.0012s) median latency. The mathmaticians out there might notice that this speed up is a lot more than the expected 47% increase. It's a 73% increase in requests per second and a 65% improvement in processing time. Whats happening?!

> While I haven't gone to machine code to verify here is what I believe is happening. The memory controller for the CM4 also lives on the CPU. Increasing the clock speed of the CPU also increases the performance of the memory. This means we almost are doubling the expected speedup by increasing the clock speed.

Reviewer: Interesting observation, the GET time is not too far off from the theoretical estimation (307k * 1.47 = 451k). While the set is significantly faster. I'm not sure why that would be though.

Author: Yeah it seems to be the set operations that had a big increase which effected the overall change. Do you think it would be better to put the results in a table like: 

| Operation | Actions | Change | 
| ---------- | -------- | --------|
| SET | 394k | +127% |
| GET | 438k | +44% |

## Adding IO Threading

With all these gains I was super excited to try the new [IO threading available](https://valkey.io/blog/unlock-one-million-rps/) in Valkey 8. First we will take down the previous running docker instance with `docker compose -f valkey.yaml down`. Then we will modify the file to: 

```yaml
services:
  valkey-1:
    image: valkey/valkey:latest
    hostname: valkey1
    command: valkey-server --port 6379 --requirepass ${VALKEY_PASSWORD} --io-threads 5
    volumes:
      - ./data1:/data
    network_mode: host

volumes:
  data1:
    driver: local

> ```

Author: +1

SET: 345494.75 requests per second, p50=0.911 msec                    
GET: 327858.09 requests per second, p50=0.879 msec  
```

Wait a second... These results are worse than the ones before? We went from 416k requests per second to 336k.... What's happening?

![A picutre of the valkey server with 4 cores represented as boxes. In each of the four core boxes there are other boxes. 2 cores have 1 IO Thread Box, 1 Core has 2 IO thread boxes, and the last one has 1 IO Thread box along with a Valkey Process box.](images/io_threads.png)

We have over-perscribed our CPU. This means we've created more worker threads than CPU cores. When a thread is under constant load it is competing with other threads on that core for resources. Not to mention they are also competing with the Valkey process for resources to read IO. 

That's why [Valkey recommends](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey/blob/a62d1f177b7888ec88035a0a1ce600fbc2280ce7/valkey.conf#L1337-L1341) setting the number of threads to be a value less than the number of cores you have. For our little 4 core server lets set it to be 2 threads and try again.

```bash

> redis-benchmark -n 10000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad -h 10.0.1.136

Reviewer: Was this saturating the server, I doin't see the threads argument being passed in here. Without it, we can't saturate the target.

Author: Ah yeah, I ran all these in threaded mode on the PI. I'll go through and re-run the command and make sure the results are consistent.

SET: 609050.44 requests per second, p50=0.831 msec                    
GET: 521186.22 requests per second, p50=0.719 msec
```

Much better! Now we are seeing around 565,000 requests per second and 0.77 msec (0.0007s) latency for requests. Thats a 35% increase in performance across both metrics! Not to mention in the picture below you can see that we have 100% utilization across all of our CPU's which means there's no more room for improvement! 

> ![A picture of an HTOP window showing all four of our CPU's at 100% utilization.](images/io_threading_htop.png)

Author: Yeah that was a typo. I re-read the guidelines and did one thread for valkey + 2 additional io threads. Here is the file I actually used. https://github.com/dtaivpp/valkey-samples/blob/main/valkey-threading.yaml

> ![A picture of an HTOP window showing all four of our CPU's at 100% utilization.](images/io_threading_htop.png)

Author: The last core is kept busy by the remaining work coordinating the os and running htop 😭

> ![A picture of an HTOP window showing all four of our CPU's at 100% utilization.](images/io_threading_htop.png)

Reviewer: Ahh, that makes more sense. I think that is more reasonable then.

date= 2024-10-21 01:01:01
authors= ["dtaivpp"]
+++

While doing extensive performance testing on a Raspberry Pi is silly, it's made me realize the complexity of performance testing. For example, in some of the tests below I ended up managing to use all of the resources of the Raspberry Pi and achieved terrible performance. Every application has different performance characteristics so we'll walk through what factors to consider when it comes to deploying Valkey. 

## The test environment

![Picture of the Compute Module 4 credit Raspberry Pi Ltd (CC BY-SA)](images/cm4.png)

For hardware we are going to be using a Raspberry Pi [Compute Module 4 (CM4)](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/compute-module-4/?variant=raspberry-pi-cm4001000). It's a single board computer (SBC) that comes with a tiny 1.5Ghz 4-core Broadcomm CPU and 8GB of system memory. This is hardly the first device someone would pick when deciding on a production system. Using the CM4 makes it easy to showcase how to optimize Valkey depending on your different hardware constraints.

> Our operating system will be a 64-bit debian based operating system (OS) called [Rasbian](https://www.raspbian.org/). This distribution is specifically modified to perform well on the CM4. Valkey will run in a docker container orchestrated with docker compose. I like deploying in containers as it simplifies operations. If you'd like to follow along here is [a guide for installing Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/). Make sure to continue to the [second page of the installation process](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/) as well. It's easy to miss and skipping it could make it harder to follow along. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our operating system will be a 64-bit Debian based operating system (OS) called [Rasbian](https://www.raspbian.org/). This distribution is specifically modified to perform well on the CM4. Valkey will run in a docker container orchestrated with docker compose. I like deploying in containers as it simplifies operations. If you'd like to follow along here is [a guide for installing Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/). Make sure to continue to the [second page of the installation process](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/) as well. It's easy to miss and skipping it could make it harder to follow along. 
```

> We'll be using two CM4s for testing. The first will host Valkey and the second will host the benchmarking software. This setup probably better reflects how most people will run in production. Benchmarking is being done with redis-benchmark because it can be installed with `sudo apt install redis-tools`. Valkey does have it's own benchmark utility that comes installed Valkey instance. To use valkey-benchmark instead you would need to install Valkey on the benchmarking server or spin up a container and connect into it. Functionally, they both operate nearly the same as of the writing of this article. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll be using two CM4s for testing. The first will host Valkey and the second will host the benchmarking software. This setup probably better reflects how most people will run in production. Benchmarking is being done with redis-benchmark because it can be installed with `sudo apt install redis-tools`. Valkey does have its own benchmark utility that comes installed Valkey instance. To use valkey-benchmark instead you would need to install Valkey on the benchmarking server or spin up a container and connect into it. Functionally, they both operate nearly the same as of the writing of this article. 
```

![Test architecture showing two nodes: a Benchmark server with the ip of 10.0.11.221 with an arrow pointing to a Valkey server with an ip of 10.0.1.136](images/test_setup.png)

## Setting up our environment

Below is a straightforward docker compose file that will start a single Valkey container. This container will bind Valkey to port 6379 on the host device. This means that is exposed to anyone with access to your network! This is important for us to access it from the benchmarking server. 

```yaml
# valkey.yaml
services:
  valkey-1:
    image: valkey/valkey:latest
    hostname: valkey1

>     command: valkey-server --port 6379 --requirepass ${VALKEY_PASSWORD} --io-threads ${IO_THREADS}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    command: valkey-server --port 6379 --requirepass ${VALKEY_PASSWORD} --io-threads ${IO_THREADS} --save ""
```

I remember we discussed this, but didn't you also want to turn off saving to make sure the full sync isn't interrupting the process?

Author: ohhh I misunderstood. I though you were saying to remove the flag. I will update that

    volumes:
      - ./data:/data
    network_mode: host

volumes:
  data:
    driver: local
```

> Since we are exposing this to our internal network we will create a password for our default user. I used `head -16 /dev/urandom | openssl sha1` to generate a random password. Because of how fast Valkey can process requests a brute force attack could try hundereds of thousands of passwords per second. After generating that password I put it in a `.env` file in the same directory as our docker compose. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are exposing this to our internal network we will create a password for our default user. I used `head -16 /dev/urandom | openssl sha1` to generate a random password. Because of how fast Valkey can process requests a brute force attack could try hundreds of thousands of passwords per second. After generating that password, I put it in a `.env` file in the same directory as our docker compose. 
```

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a <PASSWORD FROM .env> --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
```

Test breakdown:
- `-n` - this will run 1,000,000 operations using the commands in -t
- `-t` - will run the set and get tests
- `-P` - this specifies that we would like the tests to use 16 pipelines (send 16 operations per request). 
- `-q` - silences the output to show only the final results
- `-a` - use the specified password
- `-h` - run the test against the specified host
- `--threads` - how many threads to generate test data from

Honestly, I was astonished by the first set of results I got. Sure, I expected Valkey to be fast but this speed from a single board computer?? ON A SINGLE THREAD?? It's amazing. 

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 173040.33 requests per second, p50=4.503 msec                    
GET: 307031.00 requests per second, p50=2.455 msec
```

Between the two tests we averaged 240,000 requests per second.  

## Raising the CPU clock speed

> Since Valkey is a single threaded application it makes sense that higher clock speeds would lead to more performance. I don't expect most people will overclock their servers in production. Different servers may be available with different CPU clock speeds. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Valkey is a single threaded application, it makes sense that higher clock speeds would lead to more performance. I don't expect most people will overclock their servers in production. Different servers may be available with different CPU clock speeds. 
```

> **Note:** Clock speeds generally are only comparable between CPU's with a similar architecture. For example, you could reasonably compare clock speeds between an 12th generation Intel i5 and a 12th generation Intel i7. If the 12th gen i7 had a max clock speed of 5Ghz that doesn't necessarily mean it will be slower than a AMD Ryzen 9 9900X clocked at 5.6Ghz. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Clock speeds generally are only comparable between CPU's with a similar architecture. For example, you could reasonably compare clock speeds between an 12th generation Intel i5 and a 12th generation Intel i7. If the 12th gen i7 had a max clock speed of 5Ghz that doesn't necessarily mean it will be slower than an AMD Ryzen 9 9900X clocked at 5.6Ghz. 
```

> If you're following along on a Pi of your own I've outlined the steps to overclock your CM4 below. Otherwise you can skip to the results section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're following along on a Pi of your own I've outlined the steps to overclock your CM4 below. Otherwise, you can skip to the results section below.
```

**Warning** Just a reminder overclocking your device can cause damage to your device. Please use caution and do your own research for settings that are safe. 

1. Open the below file
    - `sudo nano /boot/firmware/config.txt`
2. At the end of the file add this section below the `[all]` tag
    ```
    [all]
    over_voltage=8
    arm_freq=2200
    ```
3. Restart the Pi and log back in `sudo restart now`

> We've just increased the speed of the Pi by 47% by raising the clock speed from 1.5Ghz to 2.2Ghz. Now lets re-run our test and see how things look!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've just increased the speed of the Pi by 47% by raising the clock speed from 1.5Ghz to 2.2Ghz. Now let's re-run our test and see how things look!
```

```bash 
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 394368.41 requests per second, p50=1.223 msec                    
GET: 438058.53 requests per second, p50=1.135 msec 
```

> We're up to 416,000 requests per second (reminder this is the average between the two operations). The mathmaticians out there might notice that this speed up is a lot more than the expected 47% increase. It's a 73% increase in requests per second. What's happening?!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're up to 416,000 requests per second (reminder this is the average between the two operations). The mathematicians out there might notice that this speed up is a lot more than the expected 47% increase. It's a 73% increase in requests per second. What's happening?!
```

![A picture of the valkey server with 4 cores represented as boxes. In each of the four core boxes there are other boxes. 2 cores have 1 IO Thread Box, 1 Core has 2 IO thread boxes, and the last one has 1 IO Thread box along with a Valkey Process box.](images/io_threads.png)

We have over-subscribed our CPU. This means we've created more worker threads than CPU cores. When a thread is under constant load it is competing with other threads on that core for resources. Not to mention, they are also competing with the Valkey process for resources. 

That's why [Valkey recommends](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey/blob/a62d1f177b7888ec88035a0a1ce600fbc2280ce7/valkey.conf#L1337-L1341) setting the number of threads to be a value less than the number of cores you have. For our little 4 core server lets change the `IO_THREADS` parameter to be 2 threads in the `.env` file and try again.

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 10000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 609050.44 requests per second, p50=0.831 msec                    
GET: 521186.22 requests per second, p50=0.719 msec
```

> Much better! Now we are seeing around 565,000 requests per second. Thats a 35% increase in performance across both metrics! Not to mention in the picture below you can see that we have 100% utilization across all of our CPU's which means there's no more room for improvement! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Much better! Now we are seeing around 565,000 requests per second. That is a 35% increase in throughput! Not to mention in the picture below you can see that we have 100% utilization across all of our CPU's which means there's no more room for improvement! 
```

![A picture of an HTOP window showing all four of our CPU's at 100% utilization.](images/io_threading_htop.png)

Right? Well believe it or not we can squeeze even more performance out of our little CM4! 

![A picture of our Valkey server with the 4 core boxes and to the right of them is a memory box. In the first core box is the Valkey process and in the next two there are IO Threads. The valkey process has a loop showing it communiacting with both of the IO threads. It also has a bracket showing it managing all the memory.](images/io_threading_arch.png)

> Above is a representitive outline of what's happening on the server. The Valkey process has to take up valuble cycles managing the IO Threads. Not only that it has to perform a lot of work to manage all the memory assigned to it. That's a lot of work for a single process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Above is a representative outline of what's happening on the server. The Valkey process has to take up valuable cycles managing the IO Threads. Not only that it has to perform a lot of work to manage all the memory assigned to it. That's a lot of work for a single process.
```

> Now there is actually one more optimization we can use to make single threaded Valkey even faster. Valkey recently has done a substantial amount of work to support speculative execution. This work allows Valkey to predict which values will be needed from memory in future processing steps. This way Valkey server does't have to wait for memory access which is an order of magnitude slower than L1 caches. While I won't go through the details of how this works as there's already a [great blog that describes how to take advanage of these optimizations](https://valkey.io/blog/unlock-one-million-rps-part2/) here are the results: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now there is actually one more optimization we can use to make single threaded Valkey even faster. Valkey recently has done a substantial amount of work to support speculative execution. This work allows Valkey to predict which values will be needed from memory in future processing steps. This way Valkey server doesn't have to wait for memory access which is an order of magnitude slower than L1 caches. While I won't go through the details of how this works as there's already a [great blog that describes how to take advantage of these optimizations](https://valkey.io/blog/unlock-one-million-rps-part2/) here are the results: 
```
What did you change between this test and the previous test? Speculative execution is on by default.

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 10000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 632791.25 requests per second, p50=1.191 msec
GET: 888573.00 requests per second, p50=0.695 msec
```

While these results are better they are a bit confusing. After talking with some of Valkey's maintainers it seems there may be something different in the way that Rasbian is configured when it comes to memory writes. In their testing the `GET/SET` requests were nearly identical but in my testing so far the write speed seems to always be behind read speed. If you think you know why please reach out!

## Clustered Valkey

![A picture of our Valkey server with the 4 core boxes and to the right of them is a memory box. In the first three core boxs are Valkey processes. Each of them has a bracket around a portion of the memory.](images/valkey_clustered.png)

> For our last step we are going to spin up a Valkey cluster. This cluster will have individual instances of Valkey runnning that each will be responsible for managing their own keys. This way each instance can execute operations in parallel much more easily.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our last step we are going to spin up a Valkey cluster. This cluster will have individual instances of Valkey running that each will be responsible for managing their own keys. This way each instance can execute operations in parallel much more easily.  
```

```bash
docker exec -it kvtest-valkey-node-1-1 valkey-cli --cluster create 10.0.1.136:6379 10.0.1.136:6380 10.0.1.136:6381 -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad
```

Now we can run our benchmark! We need to add the `--cluster` flag to our benchmarking command. Also, because this is so fast I ended up moving from 1 million requests to 10 million requests. That way we can make sure Valkey has time to fully utilize all it's resources. 

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 10000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q --threads 10 --cluster -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136 
Cluster has 3 master nodes:

Master 0: 219294612b44226fa32482871cf21025ff531875 10.0.1.136:6380
Master 1: e5d85b970551c27065f1552f5358f4add6114d98 10.0.1.136:6381
Master 2: 1faf3d0dd22e518eec11fd46c0de6ce18cd15cfe 10.0.1.136:6379

SET: 1122838.50 requests per second, p50=0.575 msec                     
GET: 1188071.75 requests per second, p50=0.511 msec  
```

**1,155,000 requests per second**. We've managed to double our requests per second. All this on a single board computer that's the size of a credit card. 

> While this is far from what I would recommend for a production server these are the same steps I'd reccomend to someone evaluating Valkey. It's important test with a single instance to start finding the optimal settings. Then you can begin to scale up your test by adding either more IO Threads or Valkey instances. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this is far from what I would recommend for a production server these are the same steps I'd recommend to someone evaluating Valkey. It's important test with a single instance to start finding the optimal settings. Then you can begin to scale up your test by adding either more IO Threads or Valkey instances. 
```

> Testing should mirror your production workload as best it can. This test is using syntehtic data. That's why I'd recommend checking out the documentation to find what other settings you may need to test with. For example, we tested with the default settings of 50 client connections and 3 byte payloads. Your production workload may look different so explore all the settings! You may find that IO threading works better for your use case than I did in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing should mirror your production workload as best it can. This test is using synthetic data. That's why I'd recommend checking out the documentation to find what other settings you may need to test with. For example, we tested with the default settings of 50 client connections and 3 byte payloads. Your production workload may look different so explore all the settings! You may find that IO threading works better for your use case than I did in this case.
```

+++
title = "Pushing the limits of Valkey on a Raspberry Pi"

> description = "While most people won't go to produciton on a Raspberry Pi we'll cover how to thoroughly performance test Valkey to understand how it works in production."

Reviewer 2: `produciton` looks like a typo

date= 2024-10-21 01:01:01
authors= ["dtaivpp"]
+++

> While doing extensive performance testing on a Raspberry PI is silly, it's made me realize the complexity of performance testing. For example, in some of the tests below I ended up managing to use all of the resources of the Raspberry Pi and achieved terrible performance. Every application has different performance characteristics so we'll walk though what factors to consider when it comes to deploying Valkey. 

Reviewer 2: `Raspberry PI` -> `Raspberry Pi`
`walk though` -> `walk through`

## The test environment

![Picture of the Compute Module 4 credit Raspberry Pi Ltd (CC BY-SA)](images/cm4.png)

> For hardware we are going to be using a Raspberry Pi [Compute Module 4 (CM4)](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/compute-module-4/?variant=raspberry-pi-cm4001000). It's a single board computer (SBC) that comes with a tiny 1.5Ghz 4 core Broadcomm CPU and 8GB of system memory. This is hardly the first device someone would pick when deciding on a production system. Using the CM4 makes it easy to showcase how to optimize Valkey depending on your different hardware constraints.

Reviewer 2: `4 core` -> `4-core`

```yaml
# valkey.yaml
services:
  valkey-1:
    image: valkey/valkey:latest
    hostname: valkey1
    command: valkey-server --port 6379 --requirepass ${VALKEY_PASSWORD} --io-threads ${IO_THREADS}
    volumes:
      - ./data:/data
    network_mode: host

volumes:
  data:
    driver: local
```

Since we are exposing this to our internal network we will create a password for our default user. I used `head -16 /dev/urandom | openssl sha1` to generate a random password. Because of how fast Valkey can process requests a brute force attack could try hundereds of thousands of passwords per second. After generating that password I put it in a `.env` file in the same directory as our docker compose. 

```bash
#.env
VALKEY_PASSWORD=e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad
NODE_IP=<VALKEY SERVER IP>
IO_THREADS=1
```

Now by running `docker compose -f valkey.yaml up -d` Valkey server will start with password we set! 

## Baseline test

> Now we are ready to do some baseline testing. We will log into the benchmarking server. If you haven't installed redis-benchmark yet you can do so with `sudo apt install redis-tools`.  

Reviewer 2: > If you haven't installed redis-benchmark yet you can do so with `sudo apt install redis-tools`.

Doesn't this repeat what was mentioned above (line 18).

Author: Yeah it was kind of called out earlier but this was supposed to be a concrete place for users to execute it.

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a <PASSWORD FROM .env> --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
```

Test breakdown:
- `-n` - this will run 1,000,000 operations using the commands in -t
- `-t` - will run the set and get tests
- `-P` - this specifies that we would like the tests to use 16 pipelines (send 16 operations per request). 
- `-q` - silences the output to show only the final results
- `-a` - use the specified password
- `-h` - run the test against the specified host
- `--threads` - how many threads to generate test data from

> Honestly, I was asonished by the first set of results I got. Sure, I expected Valkey to be fast but this speed from a single board computer?? ON A SINGLE THREAD?? It's amazing. 

Reviewer 2: `asonished` -> `astonished`

```bash
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 173040.33 requests per second, p50=4.503 msec                    
GET: 307031.00 requests per second, p50=2.455 msec
```

Between the two tests we averaged 240,000 requests per second.  

## Raising the CPU clock speed

Since Valkey is a single threaded application it makes sense that higher clock speeds would lead to more performance. I don't expect most people will overclock their servers in production. Different servers may be available with different CPU clock speeds. 

**Note:** Clock speeds generally are only comparable between CPU's with a similar architecture. For example, you could reasonably compare clock speeds between an 12th generation Intel i5 and a 12th generation Intel i7. If the 12th gen i7 had a max clock speed of 5Ghz that doesn't necessarily mean it will be slower than a AMD Ryzen 9 9900X clocked at 5.6Ghz. 

> If you're following along on a Pi of your own I've outlined the steps to overclock your CM4 below. Otherwise you can skip to the results section below.

Reviewer 2: Maybe you should give a warnings about overclocking Pi?

Author: Ehhh yeah that's a good callout

> 1. Open the below file in a text editor like nano.

Reviewer 2: You can probably just say edit the file, no need to suggest or explain how to use `nano` (e.g. line 96)

    - `sudo nano /boot/firmware/config.txt`
2. At the end of the file add this section below the `[all]` tag.
    ```
    [all]
    over_voltage=8
    arm_freq=2200
    ```
3. Save with cmd + x, y, enter 
4. Restart the Pi and log back in `sudo restart now`

We've just increased the speed of the Pi by 47% by raising the clock speed from 1.5Ghz to 2.2Ghz. Now lets re-run our test and see how things look!

```bash 
redis-benchmark -n 1000000 -t set,get -P 16 -q -a e41fb9818502071d592b36b99f63003019861dad --threads 5 -h 10.0.1.136
SET: 394368.41 requests per second, p50=1.223 msec                    
GET: 438058.53 requests per second, p50=1.135 msec 
```

We're up to 416,000 requests per second (reminder this is the average between the two operations). The mathmaticians out there might notice that this speed up is a lot more than the expected 47% increase. It's a 73% increase in requests per second. What's happening?!

> I actually had to take this one back to the Valkey team to figure out and we've yet to figure out exactly what is happening here. 

Reviewer 2: figure out is said twice, rephrase a bit for clarity

Author: I removed the line because I cover this in more detail later.
